---
draft: false
year: "2075"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Long Questions:

**Attempt any two questions: (2 × 10=20)**

1. Discuss the concept behind the fixed point number representation. What can be the fixed point representation of a signed number 8? Convert (14.14)10 into binary and octal. (3+3+4)
2. What is switching? How can you differentiate packet switching from circuit switching? What are the advantages of using optical fibers? (2+4+4)
3. Why system software is needed in computers? Discuss various types of operating system. (3+7)

### Short Questions

**Attempt any eight questions: (8 × 5=40)**

4. What is the role of Control Unit in CPU? How analog computer differs from digital? (2+3)
5. How RISC architecture differs from CISC architecture? (5)
6. What is the purpose of cache memory? How sequential access differs from direct access? (1+4)
7. Explain the working mechanism of a keyboard. (5)
8. Why IP address is used in internet? Mention the significance of domain name in internet. (2.5+2.5)
9. Define computer network. Suppose you have a two story building having 15 computers in each of two floors. Now if you are asked to create a network of these computers, what type of network will you create? Give proper justification to your answer. (2+3)
10. What is malicious software? How virus differs from worms? (1+4)
11. Discuss the characteristics of multimedia. (5)
12. What is database system? How data can be stored using relational model. (2+3)
