---
draft: false
year: "2065"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Attempt all questions:

1. Draw the flow chart for finding largest of three numbers and write an algorithm and
   explain it.
2. Find the value of “a” in each of the following statements:
   - int i=3, j=4, k=8
   - float a=4.5, b=6.5, c=3.5
   - (a) a = b- i/k +c/k
   - (b) a = (b-k)/j + (j + c)/k
   - (c) a = c-(( i + j)/(k + i))\*b
   - (d) a = c – i + j / k+ i \* b
   - (e) a = c + j % 2 +b
   - (f) a = (b + 1) % (c + 1).
3. Write a program for the interest charged in installments for following case. A cassette
   player costs Rs. 2000. A shopkeeper sells it for Rs. 100 down payment and Rs. 100
   for 21 more months. What is the monthly interest charged?
4. Write a program that uses a “for” loop to compute and prints the sum of a given
   numbers of squares.
5. Write a program to obtain the product of the following matrices and explain it:
   $$A= \begin{vmatrix} 3 & 5 & 7 \\ 2 & -3 & 4 \\ 4 & 5 & 2 \end{vmatrix}$$

   $$B= \begin{vmatrix} 7 & 6  \\ 6 & -5 \\ 4 & 3  \end{vmatrix}$$

6. Write a function to add, subtract, multiply, and divide two complex numbers (x +iy)
   and (c + id).
7. Write a program which will read a line and delete from it all occurrences of the word
   “that”.
8. What is a pointer and explain its applications? Write a program that uses pointers to
   copy an array of double.

   OR

   Define a pointer. Write a function that is passed an array of n pointers to the
   maximum of the floats.

9. Define a structure of employee having data members name, address, age, and salary.
   Take data for employee in an array dynamically and find the average salary.
10. Given a text file, create another text file deleting the following words “three”, “bad”,
    and “time”.

    OR

    Why do you require graphical function? Explain the basic graphical function with
    suitable program.
