---
draft: false
year: "2070"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Attempt all questions:

1. What is logical error? Write flowchart and program for checking whether the number
   entered by the user is exactly divisible by 5 or by 11. [1+5]

   OR

   What is algorithm? Write an algorithm to check given number is prime or composite. [1+5]

2. What is operator? List any six operators used in C-programming language. Write a
   program to find least number between any two numbers using ternary operator. [1+2+3]
3. Define printf() function, header file and main function. Find the value of following
   expression. Use the value initially assigned to the variables for each expressions. [4.5+1.5]

   - int a = 8, b = 5;
   - float x = 0.005, y = -0.01;
   - 1. 2 _ ((a / 5) + 4 _ (b – 3)) % (a + b - 2));
   - 2. (x > y) && (a > 0) || (b < 5);
   - 3. (a > b)?a:b;

4. Difference between if and switch statement. Write a program to read the marks of four
   subjects then find total, percentage and division according to given condition. [1+5]

   | Percentage  | Division        |
   | ----------- | --------------- |
   | p ≥ 80      | Distinction     |
   | 80 > p ≥ 70 | First division  |
   | 70 > p ≥ 50 | Second division |
   | 50 > p ≥ 40 | Third division  |
   | Otherwise   | Fail            |

   Assume each subjects carrying 100 full marks and students must secure greater or
   equal to 40 in each subjects for division.

5. Differentiate between break and continue statement. Write a program to display
   following output [2+4]

   $$
   \begin{matrix}
   1 \\
   1 & 1 \\
   1 & 1 & 1 \\
   1 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\
   1 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\
   \end{matrix}
   $$

6. Write a program to input any 10 numbers then find out greatest and smallest number. [6]
7. Write a program to add two 3×3 matrix using function. [6]
8. What is recursion? Write a program to find the factorial of given number using
   recursion. [2+4]

   OR

   What is pointer? Write a program to sort ‘n’ numbers in ascending order using dynamic memory. [2+4]

9. List any five names of graphics function. Write a program to read line of text then count
   no. of vowels, No. of digits and no. of spaces. [2+4]
10. Write a program to create a file “RECORD.TXT” then store roll no, name and
    percentage of 10 students. [6]
