---
draft: false
year: "2077"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Attempt any two questions: (2 x 10 = 20)

1. What do you mean by looping? Explain while loop with suitable example. Compare while loop with do while loop.
   Write a program to find sum and average of first n natural numbers.[1+3+2+4]
2. What are the benefits of using arrays? Compare one dimensional array with two dimensional array.
   Write a program to find transpose of a matrix.[2+2+6]
3. What is structure? How is it different from union? Create a structure named course with name,code
   and credit_hour as its member. Write a program using this structure using this structure to read
   data of 5courses and display data of those courses with credit_hour grater than 3.[1+2+7]

### Attempt any eight questions: (8 x 5 = 40)

4. Explain flowchart with example. What are the benefits of using flowchart?[3+2]
5. What is data type? Why do we need it in programming? Explain any three basic data types with example.(1+1+3)
6. What do you mean by unformatted I/O? Explain.[5]
7. Write a program to display first in prime numbers.[5]
8. Write a program to find product of two integers using your own function.[5]
9. Define pointer. How do you return pointers from functions? Explain with example.[1+4]
10. Explain different file  I/O functions with example.[5]
11. Write a program to draw a circle using graphics function.[5]
12. Write short notes on:[2x2.5=5]
    - a. Compilation and execution
    - b. Operator precedence and associativity
