---
draft: false
year: "2067"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Long Questions:

**Attempt any two questions: (2 × 10=20)**

1. Discuss the feature of the Object-Oriented Programming. Differentiate between Object Oriented
   Programming and Procedural Oriented Programming.
2. What is constructor? Explain their types? Discuss user defined parameterized constructor with suitable
   example.
3. Define a clock class (with necessary constructors and member functions) in Object Oriented Programming
   (abstract necessary attributes and their types). (Write a complete code in C++ programming language).
   - Derive a wall_clock class from clock class adding necessary attributes.
   - Create two objects of wall_clock class with all initial state to 0 or NULL.

### Short Questions

**Attempt any eight questions: (8 × 5=40)**

4. How can you classify objects? Why dynamic objects are needed?
5. What is operator overloading? Explain their types with suitable examples.
6. Why type conversion is necessary in OOP? Explain with example, the type conversion routine.
7. What is Inheritance? Explain their types with their suitable examples.
8. What is friend function? Why it is used in OOP? Explain with an example.
9. What is container class? Differentiate container class from inheritance.
10. Explain the role of virtual function in Object Oriented Programming.
11. Explain about “this” pointer with suitable example.
12. Write a program to find the square of given integer using inline function.
13. Write a program to convert feet into meter.
