---
draft: false
year: "2071"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Long Questions:

**Attempt any two questions: (2 × 10=20)**

1. Why do we need object oriented programming? How can we use inheritance to reuse already written and
   tested code in programs? Discuss with suitable example. (3+3+4)
2. Discuss features of class and object. Design a class to represent a bank account with data members name,
   account-number, account-type, and balance and functions to assign initial values, to deposit an amount, to
   withdraw an amount after checking balance, and to display the name and balance. (4+6)
3. What is operator overloading? What are the benefits of overloading? How is operator overloading different
   from function overloading. Write a program that shows an example of function overloading. (2+2+2+4)

### Short Questions

**Attempt any eight questions: (8 × 5=40)**

4. Discuss polymorphism with example.
5. What is library function? How is it different from user defined function?
6. What is looping? Differentiate while loop with do-while loop with example.
7. Discuss the use of inline function with example.
8. What is constructor? Differentiate it with destructor.
9. Explain about accessing a member function outside a class with example.
10. Write a program that decreases an integer value by 1 (one) by overloading-operator.
11. Differentiate between abstract base classes and concrete classes.
12. What is function template? Differentiate it with class template.
13. Write a program to show exception handling.
