---
draft: false
year: "2075"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Long Questions:

**Attempt any two questions: (2 × 10=20)**

1. Explain the concept of user-defined to user-defined data conversion rotine located in the destination class.
2. Depict the difference between private and public derivation. Explain derived class constructor with suitable program.
3. Briefly explain the hierarchy of stream classes. Write a program that overloads extraction and insertion operators.

### Short Questions

**Attempt any eight questions: (8 × 5=40)**

4. Write a member function called reverseit() that reverses a string ( an array of character).
   Use a for loop that swaps the first and last characters, then the second and next-to last characters
   and so on. The string should be passed to reverseit() as an argument.
5. What is the principle reason for using default arguments in the function? Explain how missing
   arguments and default arguments are handled by the function simultaneously?
6. "An overloaded function appears to perform different activities depending the kind of data send
   to it" Justify the statement with appropriate example.
7. Explain the default action of the copy constructor. Write a suitable program that demonstrates
   the technique of overloading the copy constructor.
8. Briefly explain types of inheritance used in object oriented Programming.
9. Create a real scenario where static data members are useful. Explain with suitable example.
10. Create a function called swaps() that interchanges the values of the two arguments sent to it
    (pass these arguments by reference).  Make the function into a template, so it can be used with
    all numerical data types (char, int, float, and so on). Write a main() program to exercise the
    function with several types.
11. Explain how exceptions are used for handling C++ error in a systematic and OOP-oriented way
    with the design that includes multiple exceptions.
12. How is character I/O different from Binary I/O? Explain with examples.
