---
draft: false
year: "2078"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Long Questions:

**Attempt any two questions: (2 × 10=20)**

1. Write a program according to the specification given below:
   - Create a class Account with data members acc no, balance, and min_balance(static)
   - Include methods for reading and displaying values of objects
   - Define static member function to display min_balance
   - Create array of objects to store data of 5 accounts and read and display values of each object
2. What is meant by type conversion? Define two way of converting one user defined data type
   (object) to another user defined object? Write a program that converts object of another
   distance class with data members feet and inch.(Assume 1m = 3.3 feet and 1cm = 0.4 inch)
3. How ambiguity arises in multipath inheritance? How can you remove this type of ambiguity?
   Explain with suitable example.

### Short Questions

**Attempt any eight questions: (8 × 5=40)**

4. What is structured programming? Discuss characteristics and problems
   associated with structured programming.
5. What is the use of get and getline functions? Explain with suitable example.
6. What is meant by pass by reference? How can we pass arguments by reference by
   using reference variable? Illustrate with example.
7. What is constructor? Explain the concept of default and default copy with suitable example.
8. What is the concept of friend function? How it violates the data hiding principle?
   Justify with example.
9. What is exception? Why exception handling is better to use? Explain exception handling
   with try..... catch by using suitable example.
10. When class templates are useful? How can you define a class that can implement stack with
    integer as well as sack of strings? Illustrate with example.
11. What is meant by stream? Write a program that reads content of file data.txt and displays
    the content in monitor.
12. Write short notes on:
    - a. Manipulators
    - b. Protected Access Specifier
