---
draft: false
year: "2075"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Attempt any two questions: (2 x 10 = 20)

1. Define window, viewport and viewing transformation. Let ABCD be the regular window with A(20, 20),
   B(90, 20), C(90, 70),and D(20, 70). Find the region codes for end points and use Cohen Sutherland algorithm
   to clip the lines P(10, 30) Q(80, 90).
2. List any two disadvantages of BSP tree method in visible surface detection. Make a comparision between
   Painter's algorithm and A- Buffer algorithm.
3. Describe the architecture of raster scan display. Explain about sweep, octree and boundary
   representations for solid modeling.

### Attempt any eight questions: (8 x 5 = 40)

4. Give some basic color model. Give the basic command to draw the pixel and polygon in OpenGL.
5. Trace the Bresenham's Line drawing algorithm for the end points(1, 1) and (8, 5).
6. Derive the relation for three- dimensional translation and rotation.
7. What is the purpose of wireframe  representation? Describe about boundary and space partitioning.
8. Plot the ellipse centered at (0, 0) with radius rx = 8 and ry = 6, using mid point ellipse drawing algorithm.
9. Define clipping. Discuss about cubic spline Interpolation.
10. How can we detect shadows in computer graphics? List the challenged in computing light model.
11. List some applications of VR. What might be the possible navigation techniques and manipulating
    interfaces in virtual reality? Justify.
12. Mention any two color command in OpenGL. Explain about Hermite curve.
