---
draft: false
year: "2077"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Attempt any two questions: (2 x 10 = 20)

1. List the major difference between DDA and Bresenham's Line drawing algorithm. Illustrate the
   DDA algorithm to the line with end points (2, 2) and (9, 2).
2. How polygon table is used in representing polygon? Explain the representations of any three curves.
3. Define realism in human perception. What is the significance difference between rendering
   and image synthesis in creating computer generated 3D image? Describe any two polygon rendering methods.

### Attempt any eight questions: (8 x 5 = 40)

4. Differentiate between vector and raster graphics.
5. Translate a triangle ABC with co-ordinates A(0, 0), B(5, 0) and C(5, 5) by 2 units in
   x-direction and 3 units in y-direction.
6. Differentiate between orthographic, parallel and perspective projections.
7. Describe how a polygon can be represented using BSP tree with example.
8. What is the role of ray tracing in visible surface detection? Explain how scan line
   algorithm is used for back face detection.
9. How virtual realities differ with our real world? Describe some components of VR system.
10. Write a procedure to draw a line in OpenGL? Describe Painter's algorithm.
11. Let ABCD be the rectangular window with A(0 , 0), B(10, 0), C(10, 10) and D(0, 10).
    Use Liang Barsky line clipping algorithm to clip the line XY, where X(-5, 3) and Y(15, 9).
12. Define blobby objects. Describe about basic illumination models.
