---
draft: false
year: "2078"
---

**Full Marks: 60**\
**Pass Marks: 24**\
**Time: 3 hours**

### Attempt any two questions: (2 x 10 = 20)

1. Define orthographic, parallel and perspective projections. Consider a region defined
   by the position vector , relative to global XYZ axis system. It is rotated by +300 about
   X-axis and passing through point (1.5, 1.5, 1.5). Find the final position of the region.
2. What is the method to recognize boundary point and interior point in solid modeling?
   Describe how BSP recursively subdivided a space into convex sets.
3. List some significances of virtual reality. Differentiate between virtual reality and
   augmented reality with example. Demonstrate how a polygon can be created using OpenGL.

### Attempt any eight questions: (8 x 5 = 40)

4. Discuss the strength and weakness of the human visual system. Describe Spline
   representation for the curve.
5. Plot the 1st octant of a circle centered at origin, having the radius 10 units.
6. Define fractal. Explain the Bezier curve and B-Spline curve.
7. Find the new co-ordinate of the triangle ABC, with co-ordinates A(0,0), B(1,1)
   and C(5,2) after it has been magnified to twice of its size.
8. What is the task of polygon table? Why we have to remove hidden surface? Explain
   with any one methodology?
9. Define intensity attenuation. Distinguish between Gouraud shading and Phong shading model.
10. What is the advantage of real time rendering over offline rendering? Discuss the
    limitation of Z-Buffer algorithm.
11. Describe the requirement for line clipping. Explain the scan line polygon filling algorithm.
12. What is quadric surface? Compare between diffuse reflection and specular reflection.
